# Tennis Calculator Coding Challenge

Please find the details of the Tennis Calculator specification in SPEC.md.

## Coding Challenge Evaluation Criteria

The following criteria was supplied to help you understand how the submission will be evaluated:
- What does your code look like?
-- Can you write clean (readable) code?
- What sort of testing do you do?
-- Do you know how to write tests?
-- Do you do Test Driven Development (TDD)?
- Is your solution pragmatic?
-- Can you write a simple, readable, and pragmatic solution, rather than a fancy and difficult-to-read and maintain solution?
- How are your software engineering skills?
-- Does your submission actually solve the bulk of the problem?

# Code Challenger Spiel (thats me!)

Coding challenges like this are very artificial and sterile, as they lack the context of the environment they are in, any real "user" problems, an solution is defined without any reasoning, and thus will always be over-engineered for what it really is, which is throwaway software.

i.e. an pragmatic solution to an application that won't be used / run again, is not a heavily designed/automated tested solution

Alot of those extra contexts heavily involved in how I approach problems, understand the best approach to the design of the software for that context so it best suits the needs at the time for the problem that it is solving for the direction the company is going.

## Approach

I have taken the opportunity of this challenge to learn/evaluate an new tool that was demo'ed at an AWS startup day I went to that is now available. It is Kiro which is similar to Cursor as an AI tool but works upon generating spec files and such. 

I wanted to see how it will go with defining the basic structure and few clarification prompts, which from there I would likely refactor the entire lot cause logic AI creates can be so verbose it becomes confusing again.

You can see my weird check in history of how I refactored its some of its weird choices in my github.[https://github.com/Azsael/TennisCalculator].

This is otherwise standard C# console app 

## Design Decisions
- Split Up Data loading and Processing into its on separate library
-- "Scoring" is done in explicitly separately, as different scoring methods exist so that was potential for extension? idk tennis well
-- Data loading is separated as it would be potential for data source to come from multiple locations, I primarily went with file load, but it seemed it may of been streamed in the specification doc
-- Was being fancy and loading files / data asynchronously so could process "large" files however since theres no persistent storage and its stored in memory, its kinda  abit overkill 
- Used strategy pattern for user input commands as it would be expected to add more commands in the future (or not cause we gonna yeet this)
- We just error on bad data in the tennis data input, but there is no validation over the "validity" of the tennis scoring 
- Using simple singleton memory list for data storage... its not a real solution but potentially this would be utilising some sort of persistent storage?

There is two levels of testing here, primarily bunch of unit testing (though there isn't much actual logic) and alot of user interaction pieces, and "integration tests" though its kinda of an e-2-e test.

The Integration tests run the application via Process start, it was generated by Kiro AI but I have left it in. 
It would definitely not be the approach I would be taking, I find it quite hacky, though either would be a console app that receives user input...

Though would take the opportunity to talk on the aspect of high level testing, which are important considerations but also exist within the ecosystem of the environment you are in, and works in with further CI/CD aspects, running different sets of tests on checkin/deployment/etc which is not really easily shown in this kind of situation..


## Assumptions
- Commands are case insensitive
- MatchId is a string that is case sensitive (i.e. 1 is not same as 01).
- Player names are case insensitive. 

## Run Application 

From the command line root directory you should be able to run this

`dotnet run --project TennisCalculator.Console .\full_tournament.txt`

